create table if not exists ele(ano int,sym char(5), data varchar(5000),name char(20));

insert into ele values(1,'H',"Hydrogen is the chemical element with the symbol H and atomic number 1.
Hydrogen is the lightest element. At standard conditions hydrogen is a gas of diatomic molecules having the formula H2.
It is colorless, odorless, tasteless, non-toxic, and highly combustible.
Hydrogen is the most abundant chemical substance in the universe, constituting roughly 75% of all normal matter. Stars such as the Sun are mainly composed of hydrogen in the plasma state.
Hydrogen is nonmetallic, except at extremely high pressures, and readily forms a single covalent bond with most nonmetallic elements, forming compounds such as water and nearly all organic compounds.","Hydrogen");

insert into ele values(2,'He',"Helium, the lightest of the noble gases, had actually been detected and helium is the only element in the periodic table that was discovered by an astronomer.
It holds one atomic orbital and was named by Lockyer and Frankland.
Its name is derived from the Greek word 'Helios' meaning Sun.
Scientists knew there was an enormous amount of helium in the Sun before it was discovered.It holds the lowest boiling and melting points amongst all other elements.
Nuclear fusion of hydrogen in stars generates a significant amount of helium.","Helium");

insert into ele values(3,'Li',"Lithium is a chemical element that occurs first in the alkalis of the periodic table.It is the lightest solid metal.
It’s moderately abundant and present in the Earth’s crust in 65 ppm (parts per million).Lithium takes an active part in many reactions with organic and inorganic reactants.
It reacts with oxygen to form monoxide and peroxide.Metallic Lithium reacts extremely vigorously with water.
It has very low density and low viscosity.
Metallic form of this metal is soluble in aliphatic amines of a short chain like ethylamine but insoluble in hydrocarbons.","Lithium");

insert into ele values(4,'Be',"Beryllium is an element with an atomic number of 4 in the periodic table.
It is a bivalent and highly toxic element.Beryllium exists in 30 different minerals, among which bertrandite, beryl, chrysoberyl, and phenacite are the most important.
It is found in 30 different minerals of which bertrandite, phenakite, and Beryl are the most important.
Beryllium content in the ground can pass into the plants grown on it when it is in a soluble form.Beryllium oxide (BeO) is of amphoteric nature.
Except for beryllium the alkaline earth metals react with hydrogen  upon heating to form metal hydrides.","Beryllium");

insert into ele values(5,'B',"Boron is a chemical element with atomic number five and it is a trace element that is found in the earth’s crust and solar system.
Boron is a metalloid.Boron compounds are also found in homes in the form of food preservatives, especially for fish and margarine.
It’s a poor conductor of electricity and can also be found in ceramics, flare guns, and fiber glasses.
Boron is present over a hundred minerals on Earth. But it is extremely difficult to produce, even in laboratory conditions.", "Boron");

insert into ele values(6,'C',"Carbon is a nonmetal and tetravalent i.e. has 4 electrons in the valence shell.
It is the seventeenth most abundant element found on earth. It is found in the minerals of most metals in the form of carbonates.
Carbon has three naturally occurring isotopes namely C-12, C-13 and C-14. C-12 is the most abundant whereas C-14 is radioactive and used for carbon dating.
The electronic configuration of C is 1s2 2s2 2p2. So it is tetravalent and can form four covalent bonds.Most forms of carbon are comparatively unreactive.
Carbon mainly takes part in the four main types of reaction such as oxidation reactions, addition reactions, substitution reactions and combustion reactions. ","Carbon");

insert into ele values(7,'N',"Nitrogen is the seventh element of the periodic table between carbon and oxygen is nitrogen. Around eighty per cent of the Earth’s atmosphere comprises nitrogen gas.It is a constituent of all living tissues. Since it is a component of DNA and part of a genetic code, it is an essential element of life.It is found in nitrates and nitrites in soil and water.Nitrogen molecules often exist in the soil. Nitrogen can be present in nitrates and nitrites in water and in soil. These compounds are all part of the nitrogen cycle and both are interconnected.It is used in the manufacture of ammonia, to produce nitric acid and subsequently used as a fertilizer.","Nitrogen");

insert into ele values(8,'O',"Oxygen is a member of the chalcogen group on the periodic table. It is an essential element in most combustion processes.It is used in the production and manufacturing of glass and stone products, and in mining.Special oxygen chambers are used in case of high pressure to increase the partial pressure of oxygen around the patient.The gas is colourless, odourless and insipid in a normal state. Liquid oxygen is slightly paramagnetic. It is reactive and forms oxides with every element except helium, neon, krypton, and argon. It is moderately soluble in water.O-16, O-17, and O-18 are the three naturally occurring stable isotopes of Oxygen.","Oxygen");

insert into ele values(9,'F',"The element Fluorine is a poisonous gas. It usually exists as fluoride ion F- in aqueous solution.It remains in the air for long when attached to tiny particles.Molecular fluorine and Atomic fluorine are used in semiconductor manufacturing for plasma etching, MEMs fabrication, and flat panel display production.Fluorides are also added to toothpaste to prevent dental cavities.Fluorine exists naturally in the earth’s crust and found in coal, clay, and rocks.Hydrogen fluorides are released into the air by the industries through the processes of combustion.The 13th most abundant element in the Earth’s crust is Fluoride.Fluorine is reactive with other elements which can combine with nearly any element on Earth.","Fluorine");
    
insert into ele values(10,'Ne',"Neon is reddish-orange coloured in neon lamps and vacuum discharge tubes and the second-lightest noble gas. It is less expensive refrigerant than helium in many applications. Its refrigerating capacity is 40 times more than liquid helium and three times of liquid hydrogen as per unit volume basis. It is a rare gas, and its molecules consist of a single Neon atom.It is a chemically inert gas and non-toxic in nature. There is no threat to the environment and has no impact since it’s non-reactive and does not form compounds. This element cause no ecological damage.The electronics industry uses neon singly or in mixtures with other gases in many types of gas-filled electron tubes.Other uses of neon include lightning arrestors, high-voltage indicators, television tubes and meter tubes.","Neon");

insert into ele values(11,'Na',"Sodium has a strong metallic lustre. In colour, it is very analogous to silver.
It is soft at common temperatures that it can be shaped into leaves by the pressure of the fingers.
Sodium is a member of the alkali metal family with lithium and potassium. Being one of the two elements in our table salt is its the biggest claim to fame.Sodium reacts with hydrogen above 200°C to form sodium hydride. It also reacts with various metallic halides to form sodium chloride and the metal.
Sodium is important in the manufacturing of organic compounds and in making esters. It is also used in improving the structure of certain alloys, soaps, the purification of molten metals and sodium vapour lamps.Sodium is a very reactive metal which reacts with oxygen and moisture in the air if kept open.
To avoid external contact, sodium is stored in kerosene.", "Sodium");

insert into ele values(12,'Mg',"Magnesium is the most chemically active element. In boiling water, the place of hydrogen is taken by Magnesium and a number of metals can be produced using thermal reduction of its salts and oxidized forms with magnesium. We find Magnesium in the second group in the periodic table. Magnesium is labelled as the eighth most abundant element and about 2% of earth’s crust is constituted by Magnesium. In seawater, it is the most plentiful element present. It is found  in underground brines and salty layers. After aluminium and iron, magnesium is the third most abundant structural metal in the earth’s crust.Magnesium is used by scientists in medicine. It is used to treat widely in skin-related problems and attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), anxiety, mania, recovery after surgery etc.","Magnesium");

insert into ele values(13,'Al',"Aluminium is a soft, silvery-white, ductile, nonmagnetic metal in the boron group. It is the third most abundant element in the Earth’s crust. Depending on the surface reference, aluminium appears in the range from silvery to dull grey.The element is highly reactive. It has about one-third of stiffness and density of steel.Aluminium has good corrosion resistivity.It is used in the transportation of railway, trucks, automobiles as castings.Al(II) compounds are observed in the reactions of Al metal with oxidants. It has low density, is non-toxic, has a high thermal conductivity, has excellent corrosion resistance and can be easily cast, machined and formed. It is also non-magnetic and non-sparking. It is the second most malleable metal and the sixth most ductile.","Aluminium");

insert into ele values(14,'Si',"Silicon (Si) is a close relative of carbon (C) in the periodic table. It is a member of group 14 with four valence electrons.The element is a major constituent in ceramics and bricks.Being a semiconductor, the element is put into use for making transistors.Silicon is used in the production of fire bricks.Silicon could be found attached to other elements, for instance, oxygen (O).Silicates are the rocks which contain both silicon and oxygen.Silicon was isolated and forced to develop its first crystals in the year 1854.Silicon and carbon belong to the 14th group in the periodic table. Both of them have four valence electrons in their outermost shell i.e, tetravalent.","Silicon");
insert into ele values(15,'P',"The atomic mass of phosphorus is 30.973762 u. Despite the fact that for thousands of years people have been using the periodic table with phosphorus (P) in it, it was not until 1669 that it was secluded and termed by a chemist named Brandt.Phosphorus is an element that one will under no circumstances find freely in our environment. It is extremely reactive.There are four forms of phosphorus usually used these days: white, black, red, and violet.Phosphorus can also be found in a variety of products such as baking powder, fertilisers, and fireworks.Phosphates are also used in the production of fine chinaware and special glasses.","Phosphorus");

insert into ele values(16,'S',"Sulfur (S) is an element that can never be overlooked. In the periodic table, sulfur is found in group 16. It is non-metal and is obtained as a byproduct after the production of natural gas.  In colour, it is bright yellow, and it has an extremely bad odour (like rotten eggs). Outside the apparent physical characters of sulfur, humans have been consuming this element since a thousand years. Why? Because you might just find it sitting on the ground.Sulfur plays a key role in the body and is necessary for the synthesis of some key proteins. Sulfur, for example, is needed for the glutathione synthesis, which acts as a potent antioxidant to protect your cells from damage.","Sulphur");

insert into ele values(17,'Cl',"Chlorine is the second lightest halogen and is represented as Cl. The atomic number of this chemical element is 17.They are 37Cl  and 35Cl. 36Cl is the stable radioisotope of chlorine. Sodium chloride is the most common compound of chlorine whereas the simplest is hydrogen chloride. Sodium chloride has a molecular formula NaCl whereas hydrogen chloride has a molecular formula HCl. It is highly reactive. Carl Wilhelm Scheele who was a Swedish chemist discovered Chlorine in the year 1774.It is used to get rid of the smell of putrefaction.","Chlorine");

insert into ele values(18,'Ar',"Argon is a chemical element in the eighteen group of the periodic table. It is a noble gas, and it is the third most abundant gas in earth’s atmosphere.Argon is the most common gas in the atmosphere besides Nitrogen and Oxygen. Argon is a noble gas (like helium) which means that it is completely inert.It is odourless, colourless gas that is totally inert into other substance.Under extreme conditions, argon can form certain compounds even though it is a gas.It is used in double dazzled windows to fill the space between the panels.It is used in the production of titanium.According to Chimcool, the majority of argon is the isotope argon-40 which emerge from radioactive decay of potassium-40.","Argon");

insert into ele values(19,'K',"Potassium is the first element of the fourth period (row) in the periodic table.It is a very active metal and never occurs free in nature and it always forms a compound with other elements.Potassium usually has three isotopes, it goes by the name of potassium-39, 40 and 41. The potassium-40 is highly radioactive and can be found in rocks, plants, and animals. It is used to measure the age of objects. This isotope breaks down into an isotope of argon.It can be used as a medium of heat exchange and used in nuclear power plants because of this reason.People use potassium salts as a constituent of fertiliser.","Potassium");

insert into ele values(20,'Ca',"Calcium (Ca) is a vital element that aids our bones stay tough and capable of supporting our load.Calcium is also used by our nervous system to help transmit impulses through our bodies.The element maintains the vital for bones and teeth.The element assists in the movement of muscles by helping to carry messages from the brain to all parts of the body.This element is widely used in steelmaking because it tends to readily form compounds with oxygen and sulphur.Traced in large amounts as gypsum (calcium sulfate), limestone (calcium carbonate), apatite (calcium chloro- or fluoro-phosphate) and fluorite (calcium fluoride).Since the Greeks and Romans, humans have known about calcium and compounds that contain calcium.","Calcium");

insert into ele values(21,'Sc',"Scandium is an element with the atomic number 21 and represented by the symbol ‘Sc‘ in the periodic table.Scandium is mined from one of the rare minerals from Scandinavia. The colour it develops when exposed to air is yellowish or pinkish cast. One of the characteristics of Scandium is it gets tarnished and burned easily if ignited. It also reacts with hydrogen gas and will dissolve in acids.This transition metal has been heard to have only a few uses owing to its limited availability and high costs.The metal has a silvery-white appearance while having a moderately soft texture.Except for hydrofluoric acid (HF) which has a protective trifluoride layer that deters additional reaction, this metal dissolves slowly in acids that are diluted.","Scandium");

insert into ele values(22,'Ti',"Titanium is a lustrous silver-coloured transition metal named after the Titans of Greek mythology.Discovered in 1791 in Cornwall, Great Britain by William Gregor.Titanium is less dense than steel but is equally strong.Ranking ninth on the list of most abundant metals on earth.Since titanium is one of those materials that resist corrosion, it is used mostly around salt water. The desalination plants that take in seawater and make fresh water are likely to equip a few pieces made with titanium.Aircraft: Being strong and lightweight, titanium is considered perfect for aircraft usage that needed lightweight metals so that it would be easy to lift and fly.Star Sapphire: Expensive gems like star sapphires have titanium in them.","Titanium");

insert into ele values(23,'V',"A rare, soft, ductile grey-white coloured element, which is found combined with minerals and is used to produce alloys like ferrovanadium. Due to the presence of a protective film of oxides on the surface, it helps with metal corrosion.Purification: Vanadium is used in nuclear power plants and in several other purification processes. A scientist by the name of Del Rio from Mexico was the first person to discover vanadium in the year 1901. Later this element was named after a Scandinavian goddess named Vanadis by Sweden scientist Nils Sefstrom.Springs and alloys: The physical characteristics of vanadium make it useful to manufacture springs. Vanadium is also used to make steel alloys in industries.","Vanadium");

insert into ele values(24,'Cr',"Chromium is a chemical element with atomic number 24 and represented by the symbol Cr in the Periodic Table.Chromium is a lustrous, hard metal that has a silver-grey colour. It has a high melting point.Trivalent chromium is a vital nutrient that is found in traces of sugar, human insulin, and lipid metabolism.Electroplating – It is one of the important uses of chromium. Have you seen the shiny caps over the tires of a car? That shiny plating is made using chromium.Emeralds – A small amount of chromium is found in the crystal lattice structure of expensive gems like the emerald.Chromium burns when heated and the compound that it forms is a green chromic oxide.Chromium was used by ancient Chinese.","Chromium");

insert into ele values(25,'Mn',"Manganese, is a chemical element that has the symbol Mn and the atomic number 25.This element is not found as a free element in nature but is available in combination with iron and other minerals.Manganese is used to produce a variety of important alloys and to deoxidize steel and desulfurize.It is also used in dry cell batteries.Manganese is used as a black-brown pigment in paint.Manganese steel has 13% manganese which is very strong and used for railway tracks, rifle barrels, safes and prison bars.It tarnished on exposure to air and oxidised to manganese when heated.Manganese is more reactive when available in pure form, and as a powder, it will burn in oxygen reacts with water and dissolves in dilute acids.It is an essential trace element for living creatures.","Manganese");

insert into ele values(26,'Fe',"Iron is a metal, an element of group VIII of the periodic table. It is a lustrous, ductile, malleable, silver-grey in colour. It is the tenth most abundant element in the universe. It is found in a major amount at the core of the Earth in a molten form.Iron is a chemical element in the periodic table that has the symbol Fe and atomic number 26. Iron is a group 6 and period 4 metal. Iron is notable for being the final element produced by stellar nucleosynthesis, and thus the heaviest element which does not require a supernova or similarly cataclysmic event for its formation. It is, therefore, the most abundant heavy metal in the universe.Iron is used to make alloy steels like carbon steels with additives such as nickel, chromium, vanadium, tungsten, and manganese.","Iron");

insert into ele values(27,'Co',"The element Cobalt belongs to the group VIII of the periodic table. It is similar to iron and nickel in its physical properties. Cobalt is found in plants and animals, air, water, soil, rocks. It may also enter into another environment through wind-blown dust or by rainwater washing down cobalt containing soil and rock.Cobalt is used in many alloys & super alloys to make parts in aircraft engines, gas turbines, high-speed steels, corrosion-resistant alloys, and cemented carbides.It is used in magnets and magnetic recording media.It is blue is majorly used by artists and is used by craft workers in porcelain, stained-glass pottery, enamel jeweller, and tiles.It is a hard ferromagnetic, silver-white, lustrous, brittle element.It is stable in air and does not react with water.","Cobalt");

insert into ele values(28,'Ni',"Nickel is a transition metal, with an atomic number of 28, located in the fourth period/row on the periodic table of elements. It is an essential nutrient for the body but its over intake can cause harm. Humans can get the infection by breathing in infected air or drinking such water or eating such food or smoking cigarettes. Too much nickel consumption can cause Lung cancer, Nose cancer, Larynx cancer, and Prostate cancer.It is used in gas turbines and rocket engines as it has the capability to resist corrosion even at high temperatures.It is used in making wires.Nickel is a silvery-white, hard, malleable, and ductile metal.Its melting point is 1453 °C and its boiling point is 2913 °C.","Nickel");

insert into ele values(29,'Cu',"Copper is a chemical element with atomic number 29 and symbol Cu. The Density of copper is 8.96. The atomic number of copper is 29.The metal has been used for such an extended time as it can be found secluded as an unadulterated element. One could be tunnelling in a mine and stumble across unadulterated copper in various forms.Copper sulphate is used widely as an agricultural poison and as an algicide in water purification.While one may not consider copper being used for something other than coins, it is a crucial element in the creation of bronze.Chemical vapour deposition, which is used in semiconductor manufacture, involves the deposition of thin copper films from a gas- phase precursor.Copper is an essential element. An adult human needs around 1.2 milligrams of copper a day, to help enzymes transfer energy in cells. Excess copper is toxic.","Copper");

insert into ele values(30,'Zn',"Zinc is a transition metal with atomic number 30 and represented in the Periodic Table with the symbol ‘Zn’Zinc is an important trace element in the human body, where it is present as an integral part of the enzyme carbonic anhydrase at a high concentration in the red blood cells, causing several reactions related to carbon dioxide metabolism.The metal is used for manufacturing like creating roofing materials or making zinc oxide.The metallic element is used for various purposes ranging from sunscreens to solar cells to nuclear reactors.Zinc oxide can withstand high temperatures and it prevents the tires from breaking apart when they get hot.","Zinc");

insert into ele values(31,'Ga',"Gallium is a chemical element with atomic number 31. Solid gallium is a blue-grey metal having an orthorhombic crystalline structure, whereas very pure gallium is coated with stunning silvery colour.It does not exist in pure form in nature, and its compounds do not act as a primary source of extraction.It is used in blue-ray technology, blue and green LEDs, mobile phones and pressure sensors for touch switches.This metal can be easily extracted as a by-product from iron pyrites, zinc blende, germanite, and bauxite.It is solid at room temperature but when it comes in contact with caesium, mercury, and rubidium, it becomes liquid (when heated slightly).","Gallium");

insert into ele values(32,'Ge',"Germanium is a chemical element placed between silicon and tin in Group 14 of the periodic table.A hard, grey-white, lustrous and brittle metalloid acts in properties between metals and nonmetals.Germanium has a diamond-like structure and its properties are very similar to the physical and chemical properties of silicon.Some of the trace quantities of germanium are found in various zinc blended minerals– some in sulfidic ores of arsenic and copper & some coals.Germanium is mostly produced from the ore sphalerite. The ore is converted to the germanium oxides by heating under air in a process known as roasting. The oxide of germanium is  reduced by using carbon form germanium. GeO2 + C → Ge + CO2 Germanium acts as a semiconductor, commonly doped with arsenic and other elements and used as a transistor in different electronic applications.","Germanium");

insert into ele values(33,'As',"Arsenic, a chemical element placed in the nitrogen group of the periodic table that exists in both the gray and yellow crystalline forms.Arsenic is a steel-gray, brittle solid with low thermal and electrical conductivity. There are some forms of elemental arsenic are metal-like and is best classified as a non-metal. Some other forms are also there but are not properly characterized. This element sublimes at 613 °C and it exists as As4 molecules. It is stable in dry air and in moist air it tends to become coated with a black oxide. This element is mainly used in compounds and a smaller amount is used in alloys.It is also used to prepare lead shot in past and the amount used in these applications continues to decrease.","Arsenic");

insert into ele values(34,'Se',"Selenium is a chemical element that is placed in the oxygen group of the periodic table. It is often found in combination with metals like mercury, copper, silver or lead. It is combined with the physical properties of elements like tellurium and sulphur. This element is rare and composed of 90 parts per billion of the Earth’s crust. It’s a non-metallic chemical element which is a member of group 16 of the periodic table.It serves as a decolouriser when incorporated in small amounts into the glass. When in large quantity, it imparts to glass a useful clear red colour in signal lights. It is also used in preparing red enamels for steel and ceramics. And, for vulcanization of rubber to increase resistance to abrasion.","Arsenic");

insert into ele values(35,'Br',"Bromine is an element with the appearance of deep red colour. It is noxious liquid. And it is one of the members of halogen elements.Bromine is a good oxidising agent like other chlorine water and is more useful as it does not decompose readily.It also liberates free iodine from iodide- containing solutions and sulphur from hydrogen sulphide.It is a less powerful oxidising agent as compared to the chloride ion and that too because of weaker hydration of the bromide ion.The electron affinity of this metal is very high and much similar to the chlorine.This element is bleach and is poisonous in fluid form, the vapours of it are dangerous for human skin, eyes, and the respiratory tract.","Bromine");

insert into ele values(36,'Kr',"Krypton is a chemical element and a rare gas of the Group 18 with atomic number 36 and symbol Kr in the periodic table.This gas is almost three times heavier than the air.This gas is more plentiful in Earth’s atmosphere as its traces are present in minerals and meteorites. Earth’s atmosphere contains 1.14 parts per million of the volume of Krypton.It is used in various electric and fluorescent lamps and also in a flashlamp that is employed in high-speed photography.They could even react with the very reactive gas fluorine.It is colourless, tasteless, monoatomic, and odourless.","Krypton");

insert into ele values(37,'Rb',"The element is a member of the alkali metal group 1 of the periodic table.The metal is a lithophile metallic element that does not form any minerals of its own.Rubidium finds its major application in speciality glasses which are utilized in fibre optics telecommunications systems and in night-vision devices.Rubidium-cesium-antimony coating is commonly applied to the photo-cathodes of photo-multiplier tubes, which are used in radiation detection devices, medical imaging equipment, and night-vision devices.The Rb+ ion (ionic radius 152 pm) substitutes for K+ (138 pm) in mica such as muscovite and to a lesser extent in K-feldspar such as microcline and orthoclase, as well as rare minerals, such as lepidolite, carnallite, and pollucite, in which it replaces Cs.", "Rubidium");

insert into ele values(38,'Sr',"Strontium belongs to the group 2 elements of the periodic table, along with Be, Mg, Ca and Ba. Although strontium is not considered as an essential element and does not have any known biological role, it is present in all living organisms.Strontium resembles the calcium element in its properties: like calcium, it is taken up and preferentially located in bones. Strontium is strongly associated with calcium and is indicative of calcareous rocks, especially in association with Sr, Mg, and Ba. Where Ca and other elements indicate calcareous rocks and other elements (e.g., REEs) indicate felsic intrusives, bedrock geology may be favourable for skarn mineralization. Strontium is a lithophile metallic element.", "Strontium");

insert into ele values(39,'Y',"Yttrium is a chemical element in the periodic table with atomic number 39, discovered by Johan Gadolin in the year 1794.Mira is a type of giant red star where most of the yttrium is concentrated in the solar system.It is a silver-coloured transition metal which is not found in the native state but exists in the combined state with lanthanides. It is also found in uranium ores.It is a very rare metal.Lanthanides have variable valency but Yttrium is mostly trivalent.Used in the production of synthetic garments and yttrium iron garments.Acts as a solid electrolyte and as an oxygen sensor in automobile exhaust systems.Used in the manufacture of superconductors.Radioactive isotope Y-90 is helpful in curing many cancers like lymphoma, leukaemia and bone cancers.","Yttrium");

insert into ele values(40,'Zr',"Zirconium (Zr) is a chemical element with the atomic number 40 and is represented by the chemical symbol ‘Zr’ in the periodic table.It was discovered by Martin Klaproth in the year 1798. This is named after the mineral zircon as it is the most important source of zirconium.The element is a grey-white, lustrous, strong transition metal that forms a variety of organometallic and inorganic compounds.Zirconium is available in about 30 mineral species and its major source is zircon. More than 1.5 million tonnes of zircon are mined each year, mainly in South Africa and Australia.It is observed that this element is a little toxic and the estimated intake of a human being is 50 micrograms but not harmful for life.","Zirconium");

insert into ele values(41,'Nb',"Niobium is a chemical element with atomic number 41 and is represented with the symbol Nb in the Periodic Table.It is a soft, ductile transition metal which is resistant to corrosion due to the presence of an oxide layer on its surface.It is used in stainless steel alloys for cutting tools, nuclear reactors, jets, missiles, and welding rods.It is used in the manufacturing of MRI scanners and NMR equipment.Its alloys are used in making surgical implants.At cryogenic temperatures, Niobium becomes a superconductor.When exposed to air at room temperature, metal takes on a bluish tinge for extended periods.Niobium comprises one stable isotope in the Earth’s crust.","Niobium");

insert into ele values(42,'Mo',"Molybdenum (Mo) is a chemical element in the periodic table with atomic number 42, discovered by Carl Wilhelm Scheele in 1778. Its name is derived from the Greek word Molybdos which means lead.It is a silvery-white, hard transition metal and has one of the highest melting points of all pure elements.It can be attacked slowly by acids.It is one of the greatest alloying agents as it improves the strength of steel at high temperatures and is applied for use in engines.It is even used as a fertilizer for some plants like cauliflower which is known to have Molybdenum deficiency.It is used as a catalyst for the petroleum industry.","Molybdenum");

insert into ele values(43,'Tc',"The metals name is derived from the Greek word Tekhnetos which means artificial.It is the lightest element and has a common oxidation state of 7. It has three isotopes which are radioactive and unstable. The metal is the lightest element that has all isotopes as radioactive and none are stable.Artificially generated through many ways like fission, water disposal, and neutron activation.As it is radioactive metal, it is toxic and harmful to life.Used as a catalyst similar to the way rhenium and palladium are used.Protects steel from corrosion.The compound of 99Tc is very contaminative in nature and hazardous for life.The metal could be used to map the circulatory system and any disorders.","Technetium");

insert into ele values(44,'Ru',"Ruthenium is a part of the periodic table with an atomic number of 44. It is commonly found in platinum ores.It is a shiny, silvery metal that oxidises when exposed to air at 800°C.It is one of the rare transition metals.It is used in the manufacturing of low-cost solar cells and in electronic devices.It is used as exotic material.It acts as a versatile catalyst in Fischer Tropsch synthesis and olefin metathesis.It is a member of the platinum group in the periodic table.It is generally found in North and South America and in the Ural Mountains.It is generally found in ores with the other platinum group metals.","Ruthenium");

insert into ele values(45,'Rh',"Rhodium is one of the rarest elements, occurring in only one part of 109 in the earth’s crust. It has not been studied extensively and the interpretation of many of the published results is questionable due to uncertainties of the complex species involved. In general, rhodium chemistry resembles iridium as well as cobalt to some extent.The minerals carry some rhodium up to 5 percent in rare specimens. Sperrylite may contain up to 0.72 percent of rhodium. Its metallic form is not soluble in aqua regia unless alloyed with gold, copper, lead, bismuth or platinum.Rhodium is primarily used in the production of platinum alloys, with resulting resistance materials and high hardness. These alloys are used in turbine reactors, electric ovens, and glass industries.","Rhodium");

insert into ele values(46,'Pd',"Palladium the chemical element with an atomic number of 46, is a rare element and has a lustrous silver appearance.Discovered by William Hyde Wollaston in the year 1803.The metal was named after the asteroid Pallas of the Greek goddess Athena.The metal serves as a catalyst in many chemical processes like hydrogenation, petroleum cracking, and dehydrogenation.Used in electrodes and also being a major component for multi-layer ceramic capacitors.Being an absorbent of hydrogen, used for storage of the same.
Used by photographers in making fine art with black and white prints using palladium salts.
The metal is highly resistant to corrosion in the air and some acids at room temperatures.It will dissolve in aqua regia and can be attacked by hot acids.","Palladium");

insert into ele values(47,'Ag',"Silver is the most conducting metal with atomic number 47 and represented with the symbol ‘Ag’ in the periodic table.Silver is abundant in mineral-rich soils. It is available in the mixed form, generally in crystal form.
Plants absorb silver and measured levels in the soil come around 0.03 – 0.5 ppm.Silver ( Ag ) is a white, soft, lustrous, very ductile and malleable metal.It is a very good conductor of electricity and heat.The principal use of this metal is precious, including jewellery and decorative items.It has the highest electrical conductivity of all metals, but the high cost of it has restricted us from using it in all electrical devices.","Silver");

insert into ele values(48,'Cd',"Cadmium is a soft bluish-white metal with atomic number 48 and represented with the symbol Cd in the periodic table. It is usually found as a mineral combined with other elements such as oxygen, chlorine, or sulfur. Most soil and rocks, including coal and mineral fertilizers, contain some cadmium. It enters the environment through wind, rain and mining operations. Volcanoes and Forest fires also release this natural element into the air.Cadmium and its compounds are used in several consumer products such as in nickel-cadmium batteries and for electroplating other metals Cadmium is also used in various industrial processes such as printing, textiles, photography, lasers and solar cells.","Cadmium");

insert into ele values(49,'In',"Indium is a very soft, malleable, ductile and post-transition material. It is a silver colored element with tetragonal structure centered in the face. Indium will be in a liquid state over a variety of temperatures, like gallium from the same group. Both the metals, Indium, and Gallium are able to wet the glass i.e sticks to the surface of the glass in contact. These are stable when reacted with air and water but they dissolve in acids. If heated above its melting point it turns into a flame with violet color.Used in the manufacturing of automobile bearings, which improves anti-seizure properties and moisture resistance.Used in manufacturing of corrosive resistant mirrors.","Indium");

insert into ele values(50,'Sn',"Tin or also called as Stannum in Latin with the atomic number 50 belongs to group 14 of the periodic table.Tin shows a chemical similarity to both of its neighbours in group 14, germanium and lead, and has two main oxidation states, +2 and the slightly more stable +4.It is used in tin plating, coating and polishing as it has a high resistance to corrosion.It is used in the soldering of steel as it possesses high magnetic strengths and lower melting points.It is also used in the manufacture of other alloys such as bronze and copper.It has an atomic number of 50 and is known to be a soft and malleable metal in a bluish-white appearance.About two parts/million number of the earth’s crust is said to be composed of tin.At higher temperatures, the metal forms its oxide when reacted with water and oxygen.","Tin");

insert into ele values(51,'Sb',"Antimony is a semi-metallic chemical element with an atomic number 51 and symbol Sb in the Periodic Table.The Latin name of Antimony is Stibium. It is generally found in two forms namely metallic form and non-metallic form.Antimony compounds are used since ancient times as a component in cosmetics.It is naturally found in Earth’s crust in the ores of valentinite and stibnite.Pure antimony is used in the manufacturing of certain semiconductors like infrared detectors and diodes.It is used to harden lead and increase its durability.Batteries consist of antimony for smooth functioning.It is a weak conductor of electricity and heat. The special feature of antimony and its alloys is that they expand on cooling.","Antimony");

insert into ele values(52,'Te',"Tellurium is a semimetallic, lustrous, crystalline, brittle, silver-white element. It is usually available as a dark grey powder, it has the properties both of the metals and the non metals. Tellurium forms many compounds corresponding to those of sulfur and selenium. When burned in air tellurium has a greenish-blue flame and forms tellurium dioxide as a result. Tellurium is uneffected by water or hydrochloric acid, but dissolves in nitric acid.Tellurium is often used as an additive to steel and it is often alloyed to aluminum, copper, lead or tin. Tellurium is added to lead to improve its durability, strenght and resistence to corrosion.","Tellurium");

insert into ele values(53,'I',"Iodine is a non-metallic, dark-gray/purple-black, lustrous, solid element. Iodine is the most electropositive halogen and the least reactive of the halogens even if it can still form compounds with many elements. Iodine sublime easily on heating to give a purple vapour. Iodine dissolves in some solvents, such as carbon tetrachloride and it is only slightly soluble in water.Iodine is used in medical treatment as tincture and iodioform, it is employed in the preparation of certain drugs and in the manufacture of some printing inks and dyes. ","Iodine");

insert into ele values(54,'Xe',"Xenon is a rare, odorless, colourless, tasteless, chemically unreactive gas. It was regarded as completely inert until, in 1962, Neil Bartlett reported synthesis of xenon haxafluoroplatinate. In a gas filled tube xenon emits blue light when excited by electrical discharge.Xenon has relatively little commercial use. It is used in photographic flash lamps, stroboscopic lamps, high-intensitive arc-lamps for motion picture projection and high-pressure arc lamps to product ultraviolet light (solar simulators).","Xenon");

insert into ele values(55,'Cs',"It is the most electropositive and most alkaline element. Cesium, gallium, and mercury are the only three metals that are liquid at or around room temperature. Cesium reacts explosively with cold water, and reacts with ice at temperatures above -116°C. Cesium hydroxide is a strong base and attacks glass. Cesium reacts with the halogens to form a fluoride, chloride, bromide, and iodide. Cesium metal oxidized rapidly when exposed to the air and can form the dangerous superoxide on its surface.Cesium is used in industry as a catalyst promoter, boosting the performance of other metal oxides in the capacity and for the hydrogenation of organic compounds.","Cesium");

insert into ele values(56,'Ba',"Barium is a silvery-white metal that can be found in the environment, where it exists naturally. It occurs combined with other chemicals, such as sulfur, carbon or oxygen. Ii is very light and its density is half that of iron. Barium oxidizes in air, reacts vigoroulsy with water to form the hydroxide, liberating hydrogen. Barium reacts with almost all the non-metals, forming often poisouning compounds.Barium is often used in barium-nickel alloys for spark-plug electrodes an in vacuum tubes as drying and oxygen-removing agent. It is also used in fluorescent lamps: impure barium sulfide phosphoresces after exposure to the light.","Barium");

insert into ele values(57,'La',"Lanthanum is a soft, malleable, ductile, silver-white metal. Lanthanum is naturally found in sediments.: it oxidizes rapidly in air and it reacts with water to form the hydroxide. The 1:1 salt lanthanum phosphate (LaPO4) has an extremely low solubility in water, Similarly, lanthanum carbonate (La2(CO3)3) also has a very low water solubility, 1.02 x 10-7 mol/L, calculated from the Ksp of 4 x 10-34 mol5/L5 at 25°C and I = 0 mol/dm3 reported by Martell & Smith (1974).Lanthanum is used in equipment such as colour televisions, fluorescent lamps, energy-saving lamps and glasses.","Lanthanum");

insert into ele values(58,'Ce',"Cerium is a malleable, soft, ductile, iron-grey metal, slightly harder than lead. It is very reactive: it tarnishes readily in the air, it oxidizes slowly in cold water and rapidly in hot water. It dissolves in acids. It can burn when heated or scratched with a knife.The metal is used as a core for the carbon electrodes of arc lamps, for incandescent mantles for gas lighting. Cerium is used in aluminium and iron alloys, in stainless steel as a precipitation hardening agent, to make permanent magnets.","Cerium");

insert into ele values(59,'Pr',"Praseodymium is a soft malleable, silvery-yellow metal. It is a member of the lanthanide group of the periodic table of elements. It reacts slowly with oxygen: when exposed to air it forms a green oxide that does not protect it from further oxidation. It is more resistant to corrosion in air the other rare metals, but it still needs to be stored under oil or coated with plastic. It reacts rapidly with water.A major use of the metal is in a pyrophoric alloy used in cigarettes lighter flints.","Praseodymium");

insert into ele values(60,'Nd',"Neodimium is a lustrous silvery-yellow metal. It is very reactive and qickly turnishes in air and the coated formed does not protect the metal from further oxidation, so it must be stored away from contact with air. It reacts slowly with cold water and rapidly with hot.Neodymium is one of the rare chemicals, that can be found in houses in equipment such as colour televisions, fluorescent lamps, energy-saving lamps and glasses.","Neodimium");

insert into ele values(61,'Pm',"Promethium is a rare-earth metal that emits beta radius. It is very radoiactive and rare, so it is little studied: its chemical and physical properties are not well defined. Promethium salts have a pink or red colour that coluors the surroundings air with a pale blue-green light.Promethium dose occurs in the Earth's crust in tiny amounts in some uranium ores.","Promethium");

insert into ele values(62,'Sm',"Samarium is a silvery-white metal belonging to the lanthanide group of the periodic table. It is relatively stable at room temperature in dry air, but it ignites when heated above 150 C and forms an oxide coating in moist air. Like europium samarium has a relatively stable oxidation state (II).Samarium is the fifth most abundant of the rare elements and is almost four times as common as tin.","Samarium");

insert into ele values(63,'Eu',"Europium is a soft silvery metal, both are and expensive. It is the most reactive of the lanthanide group: it tarnishes quickly in air at room temperature, burns at about 150 C to 180 C and reacts readly with water.Europium is a neutron adsorber, , so it is used in nuclear reactors control rods. Europium phosphors are used in television tubes to give a bright red colour and as an activator for yttrium-based phosphors. ","Europium");

insert into ele values(64,'Gd',"Gadolinium is a soft, shiny, ductile, silvery metal belonging to the lanthanide group of the periodic chart. The metal does not tarnish in dry air but an oxide film forms in moist air. Gadolinium reacts slowly with water and dissolves in acids. Gadolinium becomes superconductive below 1083 K. It is strongly magnetic at room temperature.Gadolinium has found some use in control rods for nuclear reactors and nuclear power plants.","Gadolinium");

insert into ele values(65,'Tb',"Terbium is a soft, malleable, ductile, silver-gray metal member of the lanthanide group of the periodic table. It is reasonably stable in air, but it is slowly oxidised and it reacts with cold water.Terbium is rare and expensive, so it has few commercial uses. Some minor uses are in lasers, semiconductor devices, and phosphorous in colour television tubes. It is also used in solid-state devices, as stabilizer of fuel cells which operate at high temperature.","Terbium");

insert into ele values(66,'Dy',"Dysprosium is a lustrous, very soft, silvery metal. It is stable in air at room temperature even if it is slowly oxydized by oxygen. It reacts with cold water and rapidly dissolves in acids. It forms several brightly coloured salts. Dysprosium's characteristics can be strongly affected by the presence of impurities.Dysprosium is one of the more abundant lanthanide elements and is more than twice as abundant as tin.","Dysprosium");

insert into ele values(67,'Ho',"Holmium is a melleable, soft, lustrous metal with a silvery colour, belonging to the lantanides series of the periodic chart of elements. It is slowly attacked by oxygen and water and dissolves in acids. It is stable in dry air at room temperature.Holmium alloys are used as a magnetic flux concentrator to create the strongest artificially-generated magnetic fields. ","Holmium");

insert into ele values(68,'Er',"Erbium is a soft, malleable, lustrous, silvery metal. It is very stable in air, it reacts very slowly with oxygen and water and dissolves in acids. Its salts are rose coloured and it has a sharp adsorption spectra in visible, ultraviolet and infrared light.Erbium is never found as a free element in nature. It is found in minerals that include all the rare-earth elements. ","Erbium");

insert into ele values(69,'Tm',"Thulium is a lanthanide element, it has a bright silvery-gray luster and can be cut by a knife. It is the least abundant of the rare earths and its metal is easy to work. It slowly tarnishes in air, but is more resistant to oxidation than most rare-earth elements. It also has some corrosion resistance in dry air and good ductility. Naturally occurring thulium is made entirely of the stable isotope Tm-169.Thulium has been used to create lasers.","Thulium");

insert into ele values(70,'Yb',"Ytterbium is a soft, malleable and rather ductile element that exhibits a bright silvery luster. A rare earth, the element is easily attacked and dissolved by mineral acids, slowly reacts with water, and oxidizes in air. The oxide forms a protective layer on the surface. Compounds of ytterbium are rare.Metallic ytterbium dust poses a fire and explosion hazard. ","Ytterbium");

insert into ele values(71,'Lu',"Pure metal lutetium has been isolated only in recent years and is one of the more difficult to prepare. It can be prepared by the reduction of anhydrous LuCl3 or LuF3 by an alkali or alkaline earth metal. The metal is silvery white and relatively stable in air. It is the hardest and the densest of the lanthanides.Lutetium is very expensive to obtain on useful quantities and therefore it has very few commercial uses.","Lutetium");

insert into ele values(72,'Hf',"Hafnium is a lustrous, silvery, ductile metal. It restists corrosion due to formation of a tough, impenetrable oxide film on its surface. The metal is unaffected by alkalis and acids, except hydrofluoric acid. Hafnium is difficult to separate form its group 4 partner, zirconium, bacause the two elements have atoms that are the same size.Hafnium ores are rare, but two are known: hafnon and alvite.","Hafnium");

insert into ele values(73,'Ta',"Tantalum is a shiny, silvery metal which is soft when is pure. It is almost immune to chemical attack at temperatures below 150 C. Tantalum is virtually resistant to corrosion due to an oxide film on its surface.Tantalum finds use in four areas: high-temperature applications, such as aircraft engines: electrical devices, such as capacitors: sirurgical impants and handling corrosive chemicals.","Tantalum");

insert into ele values(74,'W',"Tungsten is a lustrous and silvery white metal. The bulk metal resists attack by oxygen, acids and alkalis. Tungsten has the highest melting point of any metal.Tungsten is used in filaments in incandescent light bulbs, it is also used in electric contacts and arc-welding electrodes. Tungsten is used in alloys, such as steel, to which it imparts great strength.Very little tungsten has been detetced in the dew soils that have been analysed for it, although around an ore-processin plant in Russia levels as high as 2000 ppm were found.","Tungsten");

insert into ele values(75,'Re',"Rhenium is a silvery metal but rarely seen as such on account of its high melting point, which is the third highest after carbon and tungsten. Rhenium is very hard, it resists corrosion but slowly tarnishes in moist air.Rhenium is used as an important component in superalloys for blades in turbine engines and this is the major use today. Rhenium is an ideal metal for use at very high temperatures, which makes it suitable for rockets motors.","Rhenium");

insert into ele values(76,'Os',"Osmium is lustrous, silvery metal, one of the so-called platinum group of metals. It is the densest metal known, althoung only by the narrowest margins. Osmium is uneffected by water and acids, but dissolves with molten alkalis. Osmium powder reacts slowly with the oxygen of the air and gives off detacteble amounts of osmium tetroxide vapour.The metal is used in a few alloys and in industry as a catalyst.","Osmium");

insert into ele values(77,'Ir',"Iridium is a hard, brittle, lustrous, dense, transition metal of the platinum family. It is silvery-white and it is notable for being the most corrosion resistant element known. It is unaffected by air, water and acids.Nowadays demand for iridium comes mainly from the electronic industry, the automotive industry and from the chemical industry, where it is used to coat the electrodes in the chlor-alkali process, and in catalyst.","Iridium");

insert into ele values(78,'Pt','The name platinum is derived from the Spanish "platina", meaning "little silver".Platinum is unaffected by air and water, but will dissolve in hot aqua regia, in hot concentrated phosphoric and sulphuric acids, and in molten alkali. It is as resistant as gold to corrosion and tarnishing. Indeed, platinum will not oxidize in air no matter how strongly it is heated.Platinum has many uses. Its wear- and tarnish-resistance characteristics are well-suited for making fine jewelry. ',"Platinum");

insert into ele values(79,'Au',"Gold is metallic, with a yellow colour when in a mass, but when finely divided it may be black, ruby, or purple. It is the most malleable and ductile metal: 1 ounce (28 g) of gold can be beaten out to 300 square feet. It is a soft metal and is usually alloyed to give it more strength. It is a good conductor of heat and electricity, and is unaffected by air and most reagents.Gold is usually alloyed in jewellery to give it more strength, and the term carat describes the amount of gold present (24 carats is pure gold).","Gold");

insert into ele values(80,'Hg',"Mercury is the only common metal which is liquid at ordinary temperatures. Mercury is sometimes called quicksilver. It is a heavy, silvery-white liquid metal. It is a rather poor conductor of heat if compared with other metals but it is a fair conductor of electricity. It alloys easily with many metals, such as gold, silver, and tin. These alloys are called amalgams.Mercury metal has many uses. Because of its high density it is used in barometers and manometers.","Mercury");

insert into ele values(81,'Tl',"When freshly exposed to air, thallium exhibits a metallic lustre, but soon develops a blueish-grey tinge, resembling lead in appearance. A heavy oxide builds up on thallium if left in air, and in the presence of water the hydroxide is formed. The metal is very soft and malleable. It can be cut with a knife.Thallium is used for making low-melting point special glass for highly reflective lenses. Thallium salts are used as reagents in chemical research. ","Thallium");

insert into ele values(82,'Pb',"Lead is a bluish-white lustrous metal. It is very soft, highly malleable, ductile, and a relatively poor conductor of electricity. It is very resistant to corrosion but tarnishes upon exposure to air. Lead isotopes are the end products of each of the three series of naturally occurring radioactive elements.Lead pipes bearing the insignia of Roman emperors, used as drains from the baths, are still in service. Alloys include pewter and solder. ","Lead");

insert into ele values(83,'Bi',"Bismuth is a white, crystalline, brittle metal with a pinkish tinge. Bismuth is the most diamagnetic of all metals, and the thermal conductivity is lower than any metal except mercury. It has a high electrical resistance, and has the highest Hall effect of any metal (that is, the greatest increase in electrical resistance when placed in a magnetic field). Bismuth is stable to oxygen and water but dissolves in concentrated nitric air. All bismuth salts form insoluble compounds when put into water.","Bismuth");

insert into ele values(84,'Po',"Polonium is a radioactive, extremely rare semi-metal. It is reactive, silvery-gray, it dissolves in dilute acids, but it is only slightly soluble in alkalis. it is fairly volatile: about half of a sample of it will evaporate within 3 days (unless it is kept in a sealed container).Polonium was once used in textile mills (to eliminate static charges) and by the manufacturers of photographic plates (in brushes to remove the accumulated dust).","Polonium");

insert into ele values(85,'At',"Astatine is a highly radioactive element and it is the heaviest known halogen. Its chemical properties are believed to be similar to those of iodine. Is has been little researched because all its isotopes have short half lives. All that is known about the element has been estimated from knowing its position in the periodic table below iodine and by studying its chemistry in extreme diluted solutions.Astatine is never encountered outside nuclear facilities or research laboratories.","Astatine");

insert into ele values(86,'Rn',"Radon is colorless at standard temperature and pressure and it is the most dense gas known. At temperature below it's freezing point is has a brilliant yellow phosphorescence. It is chemically unreactive, it is highly radioactive and has a short half life.Radon was sometimes used in hospitals to treat cancer and was produced as needed and delivered in sealed gold needles. ","Radon");

insert into ele values(87,'Fr',"Francium is extremely rare. Because of this its chemical and physical properties are not known. It has been studied by radiochemical techniques, which show that its most stable state is the ion Fr+. Francium is the least electronegative of all the known elements.No use has been found for what little francium can be produced.","Francium");

insert into ele values(88,'Ra',"Radium is silvery, lustrous, soft, intensely radioactive. It readily oxidizes on exposure to air, turning from almost pure white to black. Radium is luminescent, corrodes in water to form radium hydroxide. Although is the heaviest member of the alkaline-earth group it is the most volatile.Radium is used in luminous paint (in the form of radium bromide). Radium and beryllium were once used as a portable source of neutrons. Radium is used in medicine to produce radon gas, used for cancer treatment. ","Radium");

insert into ele values(89,'Ac',"Actinium is a silvery radioactive metallic element. Actinium glows in the dark due to its intense radioactivity with a blue light.
Actinium was discovered in 1899 by André-Louis Debierne, a French chemist, who separated it from pitchblende. Friedrich Otto Giesel independently discovered actinium in 1902. The chemical behavior of actinium is similar to that of the rare earth lanthanum.
The word actinium comes from the Greek aktis, aktinos, meaning beam or ray.","Actinium");

insert into ele values(90,'Th',"When pure, thorium is a silvery white metal which is air-stable and retains its lustre for several months. When contaminated with the oxide, thorium slowly tarnishes in air, becoming grey and finally black. Thorium oxide has a melting point of 3300°C, the highest of all oxides. Only a few elements, such as tungsten, and a few compounds, such as tantalum carbide, have higher melting points.Thorium is slowly attacked by water, but does not dissolve readily in most common acids, except hydrochloric.","Thorium");

insert into ele values(91,'Pa',"Protactinium is a silver metallic element that belongs to the actinide group. It is malleable, shiny, silver-gray, radioactive. It does not tarnish rapidly in air, it is attacked by oxygen, steam and acids, but not by alkalis. It is superconductive at temperatures below 1.4 K.Due to its scarcity, high radioactivity and toxicity, there are currently no uses for protactinium outside of basic scientific research.","Protactinium");

insert into ele values(92,'U',"Uranium is a hard, dense, malleable, ductile, silver-white, radioactive metal. Uranium metal has very high density. When finely divided, it can react with cold water. In air it is coated by uranium oxide, tarnishing rapidly. It is attacked by steam and acids. Uranium can form solids solutions and intermetallic compounds with many of the metals.Uranium gained importance with the development of practical uses of nuclear energy. ","Uranium");

insert into ele values(93,'Np',"Neptunium is a ductile, silvery, radioactive metal. Neptunium forms numerous chemical compounds. Chemically it is extremely reactive and is attacked by oxygen, steam and acids, but not by alkalis. It can exist in many oxidation states, from neptunium (II) to neptunium (VII).Neptunium has been used in neutron detectors. It does not have any commercial application.","Neptunium");

insert into ele values(94,'Pu',"Plutonium was discovered in 1941 by Dr. Glenn T. Seaborg and Edwin McMillan, Kennedy, and Wahl by deuteron bombardment of uranium in the 60-inch cyclotron of the Berkeley Radiation Laboratory at the University of California, Berkeley, but the discovery was kept secret. It was named after the planet Pluto, having been discovered directly after Neptunium.The metal has a silvery appearance and takes on a yellow tarnish when slightly oxidized. ","Plutonium");

insert into ele values(95,'Am',"Americium is a silvery-white synthetic metal. It slowly tarnishes in dry air, but it is resistent to alkalis. It is denser than lead. Several americium compounds have been made and these are generally coloured - for example, the chloride is pink.Americium has some uses: it is used in some smoke detectors, as portable gamma ray source in radiography, to help to create flat glass. ","Americium");

insert into ele values(96,'Cm',"Named after Pierre and Marie Curie. Curium is a hard, brittle, silvery metal that tarnishes slowly in dry air at room temperature. Curium does not occur naturally: it is typically produced artificially in nuclear reactors through successive neutron captures by plutonium and americium isotopes.Curium is very radioactive, more electropositive than Aluminum, chenically reactive. A few compounds of curium are known, as the fluorides.","Curium");

insert into ele values(97,'Bk',"Berkelium is a radioactive metallic element that is a member of the actinide group of elements. It is silvery in colour and its chemistry has been investigated to a limited extent and several compounds have been made. Berkelim metal is attacked by oxygen, steam and acids, but not by alkalis.Berkelium was synthesized at and is named after the University of California, Berkeley.
The eighth member of the actinide transition series, berkelium was discovered in December 1949 by Thompson, Albert Ghiorso, and Glenn Seaborg, and was the fifth transuranium element synthesized.","Berkelium");

insert into ele values(98,'Cf',"Californium is a radioactive metal which is a memeber of the actinide group of the periodi table. A sample of the metal itself has not been produced yet because its compounds resist reduction. It is expected to be readily attacked by air, steam and acids and not by alkalis.
Californium, the sixth transuranium element to be discovered, was produced by Thompson, Street, Ghioirso, and Seaborg in 1950 by bombarding microgram quantities of 242Cm with 35 MeV helium ions in the Berkeley 60-inch cyclotron.","Californium");

insert into ele values(99,'Es',"Einsteinium is a member of the actinide series, it is metallic and radioactive, with no known uses. It is attacked by oxygen, steam and acids but not by alkalis. It is named after Albert Einstein.
It was the seventh transuranic element to be discovered. It was first identified in December 1952 by Albert Ghiorso at the University of California, Berkeley and another team headed by G.R. Choppin at Los Alamos.","Einsteinium");

insert into ele values(100,'Fm',"Fermium is a radioactive element and a member of the actinide group of the periodic table of elements. So far not enough fermium has been made to analyse its chemical properties, but predictions are that it would be a silvery metal susceptible to attack by air, steam and acids.Fermium was identified by Albert Ghiorso and co-workers in 1952.","Fermium");

insert into ele values(101,'Md',"Mendelevium is the first transferium element with the most stable isotope 258Md having a half-life of 52 days. It's chemical data are limited to its atomic number, its haf life and isotopes. Atomic weight of known isotopes range from 245 to 261. It is named after Dimitri Mendeleyev, who produced one of the first periodic tables.The transferium elements have neither application nor economic role.","Mendelevium");

insert into ele values(102,'No',"Nobelium is the second transferium element with the most stable isotope 259Md having a half-life of 58 minutes. It's chemical data are limited to its atomic number, its haf life and isotopes. Atomic weight of known isotopes range from 249 to 262. It is named after Alfred Nobel, Swedish chemist, industrialist and founder of the Nobel Prizes.The transferium elements have neither application nor economic role.","Nobelium");

insert into ele values(103,'Lr',"Lawrencium is the second transferium element with the most stable isotope 262 Lr having a half-life of 216 minutes. It's chemical data are limited to its atomic number, its haf life and isotopes. Atomic weight of known its 11 isotopes range from 252 to 262. It is named after Ernest O. Lawrence, the inventor of the cyclotron, the research instrument with which several new elements havve been first produced.The transferium elements have neither application nor economic role.","Lawrencium");

insert into ele values(104,'Rf',"Rutherfordium is a highly radioactive chemical element. His most stable isotope Rf 265 has an half like of approximately 13 hours. Nine of its isotopes are known. Its predominant oxidation in +4 and complexes such as RfCl62- have been confirmed.Rutherfordium does not have any application and little is known about it.","Rutherfordium");

insert into ele values(105,'Db',"The atomic weight of nine known isotopes range from 255 to 263; the longest-lived isotope, dubnium 268 has an half-life of 32 hours.Dubnium does not have any application and little is known about it.Dubnium is not found free in the environment, it is a synthetic element.","Dubnium");

insert into ele values(106,'Sg',"Seaborgium is an artificially produced radioactive chemical element, it's appearance is unknown, it probably has a silvery white or metallic gray colour. The most stable isotope Sg 271 has an half life of 2.4 minutes.Seaborgium is not found free in the environment, since it is a synthetic element.Due to its extremely short half-life (21 seconds), there’s no reason for considering the effects of seabprgoim in the environment.","Seaborgium");

insert into ele values(107,'Bh',"Bohrium is an artificially produced radioactive element. It is probably silvery or metallic gray. It's most stable isotope, Bh-262 has an half life of 17 seconds.As it is so unstable, any amount formed would decompose to other elements so quickly that there’s no reason to study its effects on human health.Due to its extremely short half-life (17 seconds), there’s no reason for considering the effects of bohrium in the environment.","Bohrium");

insert into ele values(108,'Hs',"Hassium is a synthetic chemical element, expected to have chemical properties similar to those of osmium and a silvery white or metallic gray colour.Hassium does not have any known application and little is known about it.As it is so unstable, any amount formed would decompose to other elements so quickly that there’s no reason to study its effects on human health.","Hassium");

insert into ele values(109,'Mt',"Meitnerium is an artificially produced radioactive element. None of meitnerium's chemistry has been researched, but it should resemble other elements of group 9, like iridium.Meitnerium does not have any known application and little is known about it.Meitnerium is not found free in the environment, since it is a synthetic element.","Meitnerium");

insert into ele values(110,'Ds',"Darmstadtium is a synthetic element in the periodic table which quickly decays: its isotopes of mass 279-281 have half-lives measured in microseconds. It is named after the place of its discovery, Darmstadt.Darmstadtium does not have any known application and little is known about it.Darmstadtium is not found free in the environment, since it is a synthetic element.","Darmstadtium");

insert into ele values(111,'Rg',"From its position in the periodic table, in group 11 below gold, this element should have the physical properties of a noble metal and, were it long enough lived it should be possible to make compound of it although, like gold, it might be reluctant to form them. Its appearance is unknown, probably it is yellow or orange metallic (like gold).Roentgenium does not have any known application and little is known about it.","Roentgenium");

insert into ele values(112,'Cn',"From its position in the periodic table, in group 12 below mercury, this element should have the physical properties of a heavy metal and, were it long-enough lived, it should be possible for it to have two kind of chemistry, corresponding to oxidation states M(I) and M(II), with the latter more unstable. Following periodic trends, it is expected to be a liquid metal more volatile that mercury.Due to its extremely short half-life (about 0.24 milliseconds), there’s no reason for considering the effects of Copernicium in the environment.","Copernicium");

insert into ele values(113,'Nh',"Nihonium is the temporary name of a chemical element in the periodic table that has the temporary symbol Nh and has the atomic number 113. It was discovered from the bombardment of atoms of Americium-243 with ions of calcium-48. Among the product of the bombardment were four atoms of ununpentium which in less than 1/10 second decayed into atoms of ununtritium. On September 2004 a team of Japanese scientists declared that they succeeded in synthesizing the element.It is expected to have properties similar of thallium and indium.","Nihonium");

insert into ele values(114,'Fl',"It is expected to have properties similar to those of lead and tin. Flerovium can be synthesized by bombarding plutonium 244 targets with calcium 48 heavy beams.Flerovium does not occur naturally on the earth, it is entirely synthesized in laboratories.Due to its extremely short half-life (about 21 seconds), there’s no reason for considering the effects of Flerovium in the environment.","Flerovium");

insert into ele values(115,'Mc',"Moscovium is the temporary name of a artificially produced radioactive chemical element that has the temporary symbol Mc and has the atomic number 115. It was discovered from the bombardment of atoms of Americium-243 with ions of calcium-48. Among the product of the bombardment were four atoms of Moscovium which in less than 1/10 second decayed into atoms of ununtritium.Moscovium does not have any known application and little is known about it.","Moscovium");

insert into ele values(116,'Lv',"Livermorium is the temporary name of an unconfirmed chemical element in the periodic table that has the temporary symbol Lv and has the atomic number 116.In 1999, researchers at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory announced the discovery of elements 116 and 118, in a paper published in Physical Review Letters.","Livermorium");

insert into ele values(117,'Ts','Tennessine is the temporary name of an undiscovered chemical element in the periodic table that has the temporary symbol Ts and has the atomic number 117.
The name Tennessine is used as a placeholder, such as in scientific articles about the search for Element 117; it is a Latinate way of saying "one-one-seven-ium" ("ium" being a standard ending for element names). Such transuranic elements are always artificially produced, and usually end up being named for a scientist.',"Tennessine");

insert into ele values(118,'Og',"Oganesson is the temporary name of a retracted chemical element in the periodic table that has the temporary symbol Og and has the atomic number 118.
In 1999, researchers at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory announced the discovery of elements 116 and 118, in a paper published in Physical Review Letters.Oganesson would probably share the properties of its group, the noble gases, resembling radon in its chemical properties.","Oganesson");


create table types(ano int,des varchar(5000),name char(50));

insert into types values(201,"In general ‘alkali’ refers to the basic or alkaline nature of their metal hydroxides. The compounds are called alkali metals because when they react with water they usually form alkalies which are nothing but strong bases that can easily neutralize acids.
Alkali metals have a corresponding [Noble gas] ns1 electronic configuration. They occupy the first column of the periodic table. Alkali elements are Lithium(Li), Sodium(Na), Potassium (K), Rubidium (Ru), Cesium (Cs) and Francium (Fr) occupying successive periods from first to seven. Francium is a radioactive element with very low half-life.
However, the main reason why hydrogen (H) is not considered as an alkali metal is that it is mostly found as a gas when the temperature and pressure are normal.",'Alkali metals');

insert into types values(202,"The alkaline earth metals are the elements that correspond to group 2 of the modern periodic table. This group of elements includes beryllium, magnesium, calcium, strontium, barium, and radium. The elements of this group are quite similar in their physical and chemical properties. For example, all alkaline earth metals are silvery-white coloured solids under standard conditions. They are also highly lustrous (shiny) and are quite reactive. The general electronic configuration of these elements is ns2. Since the alkaline earth metals have a completely full s-orbital in their respective valence shells, they tend to readily lose two electrons to form cations with a charge of +2. Thus, the most common oxidation state exhibited by the alkaline earth metals is +2.","Alkali Earth Metal");

insert into types values(203,"Lanthanoids are also known as Lanthanoid series, Lanthanides, or Lanthanones. Lanthanoids are elements from a series of elements with increasing atomic numbers, starting with lanthanum or cerium (At. No. =58) and ending with lutetium (At. No =71). The lanthanoid series is also known as the first series of rare-earth metals or the first inner transition series.This series is characterised by the filling of 4f-orbitals in the atoms and consists of fourteen elements from cerium (Ce, Atomic number =58) to lutetium (Lu, At. No. =71). These elements follow lanthanum (La, At. No. =57) in the periodic table and resemble it strongly in physical and chemical properties. This is why they are called lanthanoids.","Lanthanoides");

insert into types values(204,"An actinoid element is also called an actinide element. Any series of 15 consecutive chemical elements in the periodic table from actinium to lawrencium (atomic numbers 89–103). As a group, they are significant largely because of their radioactivity. Although several members of the group, including uranium (the most familiar), occur naturally, most are man-made.Actinides are elements with atomic numbers ranging from 90 to 103, which come after the element Actinium. Actinoids are also referred to as Actinides, actinones, and Actinoid series. The actinoid series is also known as the second rare earth series or the second inner transition series.
This series, which consists of fourteen elements ranging from thorium (Th: At No. =90) to lawrencium, involves the filling of 5f-orbitals in the atoms (Lr: At. No. =103.) These elements are found in the periodic table after actinium (Ac, At. No. 89) and have similar physical and chemical properties.","Actinoids");

insert into types values(205,"In chemistry, a transition metal (or transition element) is a chemical element in the d-block of the periodic table (groups 3 to 12), though the elements of group 12 (and less often group 3) are sometimes excluded. The lanthanide and actinide elements (the f-block) are called inner transition metals and are sometimes considered to be transition metals as well.
Since they are metals, they are lustrous and have good electrical and thermal conductivity. Most (with the exception of group 11 and group 12) are hard and strong, and have high melting and boiling temperatures. They form compounds in any of two or more different oxidation states and bind to a variety of ligands to form coordination complexes that are often coloured. They form many useful alloys and are often employed as catalysts in elemental form or in compounds such as coordination complexes and oxides.","Transition metals");

insert into types values(206,"In chemistry, the post-transition metallic elements in the periodic table are located between the transition metals to their left and the metalloids to their right. Usually included in this category are Gallium, Indium,Thallium, Tin, Lead and Bismuth. Which elements are counted as post-transition metals depends, in periodic table terms, on where the transition metals are taken to end and where the metalloids or Nonmetals are taken to start.
Post-transition metals in Periods 3 through 6 form a triangular block in Groups 13 through 17. All of them are p-block elements (which use p orbitals for bonding). In Periods 7 and above, all p-block elements are post-transition metals (except Og).
Physically, post-transition metals are soft (or brittle), have poor mechanical strength, and melting points lower than those of the transition metals.","Post-Transition metals");

insert into types values(207,"Metalloids can be defined as chemical elements whose physical and chemical properties fall in between the metal and non-metal categories. Boron, germanium, silicon, antimony, arsenic, tellurium and pollanium are the seven most widely recognized metalloids.
It can be noted that all seven of these elements can be found on the regular periodic table in a diagonal region of the p-block which extends from boron (which is placed on the upper left) to astatine (which is placed on the lower right). Some periodic tables have a dividing line between metals and nonmetals, and below this line, the metalloids can be found.
Typically, metalloids have metallic appearances but they are usually brittle and only mediocre electricity conductors. Chemically, these elements usually behave as non-metals. Metalloids have the ability to form metallic alloys.","Metalloids");

insert into types values(208,"Non-metals are those which lack all the metallic attributes. They are good insulators of heat and electricity. They are mostly gases and sometimes liquid. Some of then are even solid at room temperature like Carbon, sulphur and phosphorus.
The atoms of non-metals tend to be smaller than those of metals. Several of the other properties of non-metals result from their atomic sizes.
Non-metals have high electronegativities. This means that the atoms of non-metals have a strong tendency to attract more electrons than what they would normally have.
In their solid-state, non-metals tend to be brittle. Therefore, they lack the malleability and ductility exhibited by metals.
Ductility is the property of the material to be stretched into wires but non-metals are not ductile except for carbon, as carbon fibres find uses in a wide variety of industries including sports and music equipment.","Non-metals");

insert into types values(209,'Halogens are nonmetals. At room temperature, fluorine and chlorine are gases and bromine is a liquid. Iodine and astatine are solids. Halogens are very reactive, the reactivity decreases from fluorine to astatine. Halogens do not exist in the elemental form in nature. Astatine isotopes are radioactive with short half-lives.
Table salt, bleach, fluoride in toothpaste, chlorine in swimming pools, what do all of these have in common? Add halogen lamps to the list, and the answer becomes more clear: all involve one or more of the halogens, which form Group 7 of the periodic table, which consists of five chemically related elements: fluorine (F), chlorine (Cl), bromine (Br), iodine (I), and astatine (At).
The word "halogen" is derived from Greek and originally means “salt-forming“. Halogens are found in the environment only in the form of ions or compounds, because of their high reactivity.',"Halogen");

insert into types values(210,"The noble gases, also known as the inert gases and aerogens, are the elements that belong to group 18 of the modern periodic table. The elements that belong to this group are: Helium(He),Neo(Ne), Argon(Ar),Krypton(Kr),Xenon(Xe),Radon(Rn).
Under standard conditions for temperature and pressure, all the noble gases exist in the gaseous phase. They are known to possess extremely low chemical reactivity (hence the name inert gas). This is because all the noble gases have stable electronic configurations. This is the reason why noble gases do not form molecules easily and are mostly found as mono-atomic gases.
The general electronic configuration of the noble gases can be written as ‘ns2np6’.
therefore, the outermost valence shells of the noble gases can be considered as ‘full’.","Noble gas");




